OK so welcome to the Section 8 challenge solution.
I hope you were able to solve this problem and I hope it was fun to do and I hope you tested it and
tweaked it made it your own added some features to it and so forth.
Let me just go through a couple of solutions.
First we'll do the solution without using the modular operator.
So I'm going to scroll up here and let me just explain what I've got going on.
Here's my main right at the beginning.
OK so I've defined conversion constants these are just simple integers and it's de-value in cents of
a dollar a quarter a dime and a nickel.
And so a dollar is 100 cents a quarter is 25 cents and so forth.
Then I've got another integer called Change amount.
This is what I'm asking the user to enter.
All right so let's suppose that we're entering 1:51 here and we'll walk through a simple example here
I'm declaring all the variables and I'm going to need Dalia's quarters dimes nickels and pennies are
going to contain the number of dollars quarters dimes nickels and pennies that I need to provide the
change and then I'm going to have another variable called balance and that's going to be a balance of
running balance every time that I figure out I need $2 and I'm going to subtract $2 from the original
amount.
And so I get down to zero.
OK so that's my my algorithm or my solution is basically to determine how much have the highest currency
I need and then subtract that and have a running balance till it becomes zero.
So let's do this example here and I'm just going to write some letters over here all right.
Dalia's quarters dimes nickels and pennies.
So we can keep it running and we'll have a balanced variable here as well.
All right.
So let's start with Ratterman here on 9:57 and we need to figure out how many dollars are in 92 cents.
Well there are none right.
So what we want to do is we want to divide the change amount which in this case is 92.
Divide that by the dollar value which is 100 cents per dollar.
In this case that's going to give me a zero.
Remember we're using integer division here.
So I'm going to get to zero which says no dollars makes sense right because I've got less than 100 cents
now.
I need to update my balance.
Well how do I do that.
A debt criminate however many dollars times 100.
Well I had zero here right.
So in this case the change amount is going to be 92 and I'm going to subtract from that zero times 100.
OK so in this case I'm not attracting anything.
My balance becomes 92 OK.
So that's the first step.
Now we need to determine how many quarters we need.
So I don't want to take that balance which is 92 and I'm going to divide it by the quarter's value which
is 25 cents.
And that would give me a three right 75 cents.
So I need three quarters.
Now what I want to do is I want to subtract that 75 cents from the 92.
And in this case I'm using a compound OPERATOR Right here the minus equals.
So all I'm saying is balance equals balance minus the right hand side while the right hand side is three
quarters times.
Twenty five cents each.
Which is the seventy five.
OK so I'm going to subtract seventy five from the balance which is going to give me 17.
So that's my current balance.
Now I can work on the dimes how many dimes.
Well it's the balance which is seventeen divided by 10 cents per dime.
So this is going to give me one.
So that's one dime and I'm going to do the same thing here hopefully you can see what's going on.
I'm going to subtract one dime which is 10 cents each from the balance somewhat Subtract ten from the
balance gives me seven.
Now I'm going to figure out how many nickels I need.
Seven divided by five cents per nickel.
So I need one nickel.
I subtract five from the seven.
And I end up with two.
My balance is the number of pennies I need.
I don't need to do any more calculations.
And that gives me two pennies and we're basically done.
So if we if we add up all of this let's test this out.
This is going to give me zero.
This is going to give me twenty five times three which is 75 cents.
This will give me the 75.
This will give me 10 one times 10 one times five and two times one for I and all those guys up I should
have 75 85 92 exactly what I expected OK.
So that gives you an example of one way to approach this if we will do it really quickly with another
example here let's say we wanted to use something like 267.
So let me clear this and I'll go through this one really quickly this time.
So let's say it's 267 is the amount that the user entered.
OK.
So here how many dollars.
Well 267 divided by one hundred right 100 cents per dollar that's going to give me $2 than what I want
to do is I want to subtract I'll run my balance appear those two hundred which gives me 67 cents.
That's my balance.
How many quarters in 67 cents.
Divide that by 25.
That gives me two quarters which is 50 cents I'm subtracting 50 cents and we're right back to where
we were with the other problem where we've got 17.
How many times.
Divide that by 10.
Gives me one dime that's 10 cents I subtract 10 from that.
I end up with seven.
How many nickels.
Divide that by five.
That gives me the one nickel and I've got two left which is my pennies.
Right.
So this gives us right here one hundred times two it gives us 200.
This gives me 50 excuse me 10 5 and to add all that up I get to 50 to 60 to 70 I'm sorry 200 250 to
seven which is exactly what we started up with.
OK.
Now we can take advantage of something here.
If you notice if I have 267 and I divide that by 100.
Let's say that gives me $2 integer division.
But notice that I have a remainder my remainder is 67 right.
That's where we can use the modular operator to rework this a little bit.
So we'll do that next.
OK so let's look at another solution this time will be using the modulo operator.
So suppose the user enters 267 for the change amount and I've put all these on the same file.
That way you can play around with both of them a lot easier.
So in this case I'm zeroing everything out just like when we started.
So I've got 267 sets is what the users entered and which is keep a running total over here for the dollars
the quarters dimes nickels and pennies.
OK.
So how many dollars.
Well we divide 267 by 100 cents per dollar and that gives us the $2.
So we definitely need that now rather than subtract the two times 100 from the 267 as we did before.
We can take advantage of the modulo operator.
So in this case the change amounted to 67 maade 100.
Right.
This gives us 2 with the remainder of 67.
So the effect is exactly like subtracting 200 from 267.
So what we can do is we'll keep our balance down here this time just to have a little bit more room
in this case.
Our balance is going to be 67.
That's what we just decide right here.
Now let's figure out how many quarters we have.
Well our balance is 67.
Divide that by 25 cents per quarter and that gives us 2 quarters.
So now again instead of subtracting 50 from 67 we could just use the module operator here I'm using
the compound operator so its balance equals balance maade quarter value.
Same idea.
So balance is 67 maade 25 gives us 2 quarters right.
That's 50 with the remainder of 17.
So our balance becomes 17 and then from this point forward I think you could see what's happening.
Our balance is now 17 divided by 10 cents per dime.
Gives us one dime and then we do the same modular OPERATOR So we're going to have 17 mide 10 gives us
one with the remainder of 7.
That's really what we care about as a remainder in this case.
How many nickels.
Seven divided by five cents per nickel.
It gives us one nickel and then we do the Mada operator one last time we're going to say the balance
would be 7 which is my balance maade 5 which gives me a one with the remainder of 2.
At that point our balance is to which is the number of pennies that are left.
And again if we add this up we're going to have $2 here which is 200.
We've got 50 cents here 10 cents here 5 cents here and 2 cents here which gives us 200 250 267.
Another approach to me this approach are clear.
So it's not so cluttered request.
To me this approach as I read it looks easier to follow than the other approach but they're both really
doing the same thing is just a matter of preference and documentation.
So that's it.
I hope these two solutions were pretty close to yours.